In 2000, Polaroids made a huge comeback because
no one had phones.
And so, they reissued the Polaroid.
And, like, they became, like, the queer...
Everyone had them on their fridges.
And so, it was like, “Oh, this is a perfect
solution to the problem of...
How could I do this?
Would I take people’s names and then develop
the film and get them photographs?”
And that didn’t make sense.
And so, then it was like, this Polaroid idea
came up.
And to me, it was just perfect because, yeah,
it was instantaneous.
It eliminated issues around consent because
they would walk out the door with it.
I mean, sometimes I wouldn’t even see the
photo.
Like, sometimes they’d walk away before
it developed.
I mean, often they’d stay because they’d
be excited to look at it with me, and we’d
look at it and then they’d, you know, they’d
leave.
But it was just perfect.
And the aesthetic was awesome.
Like, Polaroids are just sexy.
You can’t take anything with a Polaroid
and it doesn’t look sexy.
Like, it felt like art to people.
It was about the image, but it was also the
process, right?
Like, it felt like every time someone came
in, we were doing relational art together.
We were doing this performance art kind of
thing where...
Like, okay, so groups would come, you know,
couples would come, and then people would
come with one person then come back with a
different person.
You know, I had trans women come who had never
been photographed as women, and who spoke
about this experience and sort of wanted to
be photographed in very particular ways.
So, some people would come and really want
a very particular experience of seeing themselves represented.
Other people were just like, “I don’t
know what to do.”
You know, they were very shy, and so I would
say, “Well, just...
I don’t know, have fun.”
Like, if they were with someone, I was like,
“Just make out, and I’ll take a good photo
and figure out how to…”
I mean, weirdly I think it was kind of therapeutic.
Like, it was this kind of interesting experience,
where people used it for a lot of different reasons.
Most people wanted the door closed, but then
some people loved the idea of the door being open.
If there was a line-up, people would watch
each other.
I mean, it was just fun.
And then, you know, like, I once had someone...
She was like, “Well, I don’t want my picture
taken, but I want to take your picture.”
So that’s actually one of the only ones
I have, is I have a picture of me.
She didn’t want to keep it.
So, I think the aesthetic was really cool
and interesting.
The immediacy of it was really wonderful.
And it meant that the, like, the experience
completed itself right in that moment and
could be shared, both with me, but with others
and...
Like, people would not have been willing to
do it, if they couldn’t walk away with that image.
Like, they knew that I wasn’t, you know,
that I wouldn’t be keeping anything of them.
So, I think that was very important.
I wish, I mean, now I’m like, “Oh my God,
I wish we had all those pictures.”
Because it would be such a great collection
of photos.
But, you know, that’s the nature of it.
It’s, like, ephemeral.
It disappears.